[VILLAGER A] Who would
do something like this?
[VILLAGER B] Teppei would,
and did, from what I hear.
Relieved himself on
the torii gate walking out.
[VILLAGER A]
The man's got no decency!
You know what
people've been saying.
Lord Oyashiro
never stops watching.
Yeah.
And he's looking
straight at the Hojos.
[TOMITAKE]
Keiichi!
Quite a crowd
you've gathered here.
[KEIICHI]
Tomitake and Takano!
Well, hi there.
I admit I didn't
expect this turnout.
I'm impressed.
How did you two know about this?
Maebara here filled us in on
the entire situation last night.
Sorry for the wait.
Coach, I've never been a
big fan of your sense of style.
but I must say,
you've really come through.
This kinda stuff
will help everyone
have a sense of solidarity,
like a uniform.
Feels like we're in
the dam war again, huh.
Here, you too, Rika.
Thank you, miss.
Right now,
Satoko needs our help,
and I'll do whatever
I can to get it to her.
Thank you, Coach.
Shall we move out then?
What do you need today?
You already know.
We came here to talk
about Satoko Hojo's case.
We demand action!
I'm very sorry to inform you
that all of our meeting rooms
are booked for the day.
What?
The center director
is more than willing
to hear your concerns,
but we don't have
enough room for you.
We can only
accommodate three of you.
Then make some room for us, now!
We can do that.
It'll be fine.
So, any good news?
It felt exactly like
a do‐over of yesterday.
So they're just gonna keep
monitoring the situation?
That's right.
They set a timeline.
They'll make their
decision in a month.
A whole month?
How much damage
are these pencil‐pushers
willing to let her uncle do?
For what it's worth, it seems
they're taking us seriously.
[MION] We told everyone
we'd be back at it tomorrow,
but I don't know
if they'll all be here.
This is so frustrating.
If they don't come back, I will.
Even if I'm by myself!
I'm still in this.
If we're going
to hope for a miracle,
we have to make one together.
Exactly.
Looks like we're
running out of daylight.
I'd say it's about time
we let everybody head
home for the evening.
And there's a
festival planning meeting.
I gotta go to that too!
[KEIICHI]
You do?
Oh, right.
I think you should come, Kei.
[KEIICHI] Is it really okay
for me to be here?
[MION] You've got a
pretty good reputation.
People have
actually been wanting
to meet you for a while.
[RENA] I hope I won't be
in anybody's way, I hope.
You won't be.
They'll be happy to see all
us youngsters taking part.
They should be, at least!
Hi everyone!
You've all arrived early.
[VOLUNTEER A]
Hey, Mion's here!
And she brought some muscle!
[VOLUNTEER B]
Hell, I don't see 'em
gettin' in the way of anything!
[KIMIYOSHI]
That explains it!
I knew some of those shoes
were too trendy
for these old farts.
What brings you kids here?
Mayor Kimiyoshi!
It's been too long.
We were already with our friends
and thought
we should bring them.
Lovely, that's wonderful.
Hi. I'm Keiichi Maebara.
[KIMIYOSHI]
Yes.
Thank you for joining us.
And you, Shion.
You should come to the festival!
We would love to see you there.
Gladly, sir.
I look forward to it,
but in the meanwhile,
we have something
to discuss, Mion.
[MION]
What?
Please join me out
here for a moment.
Is something the matter?
You're quite a pro at this.
Hey, Kei.
Can I borrow you for a sec?
[KEIICHI]
Ms. Chie?
There's something
we needed to talk about.
[KEIICHI]
And it doesn't sound like
it's gonna be anything good.
[CHIE]
You're all going back
to the Child Welfare office
tomorrow, aren't you?
[KEIICHI]
Of course.
All day, right?
After that, could you please
hold off on protesting
and give them time to decide?
This feels like a warning.
It has something to do
with whatever
the mayor told you.
Now you're passing
the message on to me.
Honestly.
I admire everything
you've been doing,
and I want you to succeed.
I do.
That's the truth.
Ms. Chie's doing all she can
to help us keep Satoko safe,
but there's just an issue.
I guess there
must be pressure on her
from somewhere higher up.
It's about our school.
For a long time it was
never officially recognized,
but Ms. Chie put
her career at risk
to come to Hinamizawa
and teach us.
I'd happily do it again.
My students are what matters.
But now, if we carry on,
they're all at risk,
and I can't allow that.
Mion is a good friend
whose leadership I trust,
and you're a teacher
I respect greatly.
I can't ignore a message from
the two strongest people I know.
Something is up, and if the
pressure is getting to you guys,
it must be something big.
I can't guess what that's like.
[CHIE]
Maebara.
Please, tell me.
Why won't the
older villagers let go
of their feud with the Hojos?
The dam war has
been over for years,
and Satoko had nothing
to do with it anyway!
So why would they
punish her like this?
Who's doing it? Just tell me!
I wanna give 'em
a piece of my mind!
[MION] I don't think
there really is anyone.
Nobody wants to see her suffer.
How do you know?
When the dam war was happening,
the Hojo family
was on the other side.
Or that's how everyone saw it.
But whatever anger we felt
died with Satoko's parents.
They were the ones who
supported the dam, not her.
[SHION] The problem is that
nobody's ever come forward
and said it out loud.
As things are,
no one wants to be the first.
So the grudge lives on.
Nobody wants it, but everyone
thinks someone else does.
But that doesn't make any sense.
All of the kids at school
are from the village,
and we love Satoko!
The problem is mostly the
older people in the village,
but they're also the ones
who have the most
influence around here.
And what's worse,
they think it's what
the demon hag of the
Sonozaki family wants,
but that's not true.
She's like them.
She's afraid to
call off the vendetta.
Grandma would let it go
if she didn't think they
expected her to keep it up.
So what do I have
to do to fix this?
Tell me who to
punch in the face!
I'm ready!
I just told you,
nobody wants to hurt Satoko!
No one in Hinamizawa has
a grudge against the Hojos!
No one!
They just can't say it!
It's a terribly sad story,
but honestly,
it's such a ridiculous one, too.
They're all ready
to forgive Satoko,
but none of them
are ready to be the one
who speaks up first.
Right, and that mindset
just festers in the village,
like mold in tatami.
Once it's set in, all you can do
is rip it up and replace it.
So the village elders
are afraid to get involved,
'cause if they do,
they all think they
could become targets
for an unnamed mystery person
or group of people.
I'm not sure,
but this mystery person.
I suspect they go by
"Lord Oyashiro."
Great! You said it yourself,
once the mold has set in,
we gotta rip up
all the flooring and put
in something new in its place!
We happen to be in luck, then,
because there's a great big room
full of rotting
tatami right in front of us.
[CHIE]
Now wait a minute!
[MION]
Both of you!
[KEIICHI]
Yeah, sounds good!
I say we toss these crusty
old bastards to the curb!
Right!
They're gonna find out
that I'm stronger than I look!
[laughs]
Well, I'm glad we're
on the same team.
Now let's go!
Okay. I've got your back.
I'm ready to join too.
All right!
No stoppin' us now!
I understand your
situation, Ms. Chie.
But for right now,
please let us do this.
All right, then.
I'm leaving things up
to all of you!
If Keiichi is on our side,
we'll be able to overcome fate.
I know it's true,
deep down in my heart!
[KEIICHI]
Now, let's move out!
I have something to say.
[KIMIYOSHI]
We'd love to hear it, Keiichi,
but we handle
personal concerns last.
I'm sorry, but I have to insist.
We need to address this now.
This is about Satoko Hojo.
She's in real danger.
You're not tellin'
us anything new.
We're all glad you got the gears
turnin' down at Child Welfare,
but now you gotta let
the system do its thing!
Are we causing some problem?
[VOLUNTEER D] Of course
it's causin' a problem!
Fine, then can you
explain it in a way
that someone my age
could understand?
Look, kid,
the dam war is all over
and done with, all right?
We've had our fill of
standing out in front
of government
buildings holding signs.
What does the stupid dam war
have to do with anything?
I don't care about
your good old days!
'Cause now,
I've got a war of my own!
Is that how you
speak to your elders?
The hell's wrong
with kids these days?
Right. Seems you're
jumping into the ring,
so let's see what you got.
Pardon me, gentlemen.
Could I ask something, please?
How does the dam war being over
mean it's a problem
for us to continue
protesting at the
Child Welfare office?
[VOLUNTEER F]
The thing is, our relationship
with the government
changed after that.
The war's over, and the
peace has been good to us.
We wanna keep it going.
[RENA]
That makes sense.
I understand how
a good relationship
with the government
helps us all.
[MION]
Oh yeah.
Why would we fight 'em
when we could
nestle up in their lap?
The village council's
gotten quite cozy with them.
They got the local
government to set aside
a generous slice of
the budget for Hinamizawa,
with some perks on top,
didn't you, now?
Shion, that's not fair.
Hold on. What's that mean?
[RENA]
Mm‐hmm.
Our council's been
bought and paid for,
and they don't
want some rowdy kids
messing up their arrangement.
What the hell
do you know about it?
We're not here for a civics
lecture from a damn child!
Order. Settle down!
I see. So our village councilmen
are really just
government lapdogs?
[VOLUNTEER D] Young man,
you are way outta line!
All you old men need
to get out of our way!
If you serve the village,
you owe it to us to help Satoko,
but you all abandoned her
because of her family name!
It's not about Satoko
or the Hojo name.
We are speaking
on behalf of the village.
You push these protests too far
and all of us
will suffer for it!
Look at this, Keiichi!
It's so cool they framed it
and hung it on the wall!
"Our village attempted
to negotiate peacefully,
but the government refused
to engage with us."
"Instead of respect,
they showed us indifference,
then violence.
Rather than bring us
to the table,
they ground
us under their heels."
Is that right?
Doesn't that sound like
what the village council
is doing to us right now?
I don't know if this
is an appropriate place
for that scroll to be anymore.
[chuckles]
Yup, you're not wrong.
Mii.
But Kimiyoshi wrote it himself,
to commemorate Hinamizawa's
victory in the dam war.
Since I first moved
to the village,
my friends have never
stopped telling me stories
about how hard you all
fought to save it back then.
You survived through
the spirit of solidarity.
And trust me.
I have nothing but
respect for the villagers
who helped foster that
spirit, and always will.
But the Onigafuchi Defensive
Alliance are the ones
I revere most!
They fought tooth and nail
against the government's tricks!
They're the reason we
have our spirit of unity,
and this beautiful
valley to live in!
I wanna be proud of the fact
that I live here in Hinamizawa!
Kid's got a point.
Can't deny it.
[KEIICHI]
One enemy faces two of us.
We meet two of them with four.
We meet four with eight
and eight with 16.
And if a thousand‐man
army comes for us,
everybody in the village
has to strike back as one!
When one of ours is in trouble,
we all come together and help!
That is what unifies
the Onigafuchi Guardians!
And Satoko Hojo is one of ours!
So now, in the spirit of
the old Onigafuchi Alliance.
We have to come
together once more!
Dammit, Keiichi's right.
How's it our job to stand up
for the government's
mistakes, anyway?
It's not, but they make
our real job a lot easier.
Mister Mayor.
Even if we can't give 'em
our official support,
I don't think any of us has
the right to try and stop
what this young man is doing.
I say Maebara is exactly right.
[VOLUNTEER H]
Same here!
He's a mouthy little punk,
but he's speaking
straight from the heart.
Yeah, I agree!
Keep it up, Keiichi.
We won't stop ya!
Right. We're all with you.
Even so.
Assuming the village shows up
in full force tomorrow,
we still have no guarantee
they'll be willing
to hear us out again.
Likely because they think
they have the village
council on their side.
That's why we need a public
statement of support
from the council for
Keiichi and his cause.
Let's do it, Mister Mayor!
We know which side we're on!
I hear all of
you loud and clear,
and as a man, Keiichi,
I want you to know that I
respect everything you've done.
But my first duty
is to the village.
Let's be honest
about what this is.
You're scared there
are people in the village
who won't help
anyone named Hojo.
Isn't that the real problem?
It's true.
Nobody wants to
speak up for Satoko,
because they think someone
else will push back!
On that subject, this
"someone else" is imaginary.
No, they're real.
I know them well.
Then who?
What is their name?
[RIKA]
Kimiyoshi.
Would you be willing to act
with that someone's permission?
Ya called me right out!
Never woulda thought
you'd aim straight
for the throat like that, Rika.
Wait, Grandma?
That hag?
Speaking for the Kimiyoshis,
our differences with the
Hojo family are all settled.
What say the Furudes?
Mii.
Mister Mayor, we'll handle this.
If you'll support us,
we can talk to Mion's grandma
and convince the Sonozaki family
to support us in our plan!
Then I'm behind you.
If Oryo will allow it,
the council can offer
its full support.
As a man, you already have mine.
[OOISHI chuckles]
I gotta say, that's quite
impressive, Mister Maebara.
[AKANE] The Child Welfare
folks know their jobs.
They don't let random members of
the public set their schedule.
So what issue are you expecting
the council to resolve?
It could take
them months to act.
Satoko will be in
danger every second!
We don't have time!
Ain't like that brat's
gonna die between now and then.
You're here screamin' in my ear
over a few bumps and bruises?
Well...
He might not kill her, but...
Then why should
I give a rat's ass?
You fools took your
lives in your hands,
makin' me spend a second
of the time I got on you.
There ain't a pair
of balls between ya!
Oryo.
Satoko is one of
my most precious friends.
I'm only asking you
to help her out.
I've told you
many times, Rika dear,
it's important
to pick your friends.
And you shoulda
known better than
to pal around with a Hojo.
Doctor Irie, any respect
I mighta had for you
as a man is shot all to hell.
Hear us out, please.
Satoko is one who bears
the Hojo family name.
But she wasn't
involved in the dam war.
‐‐She‐
‐‐[ORYO] Piss off!
Did I ask you a question?
'Cause I damn sure wasn't
lookin' for an answer!
I think you might be holding
your tongue, Keiichi.
If you care to add
something, please do.
Are you sure?
My name is Keiichi Maebara.
Assume I know every
damn thing about you
and get to the point.
[KEIICHI] It doesn't matter
what Satoko's family name is.
What matters is that she's
one of us and she's in trouble.
Did you not hear
a single word I said?
We're not ignoring
Satoko's situation,
we're just letting
the system do its job.
Would it be right
for us to undermine
the local government because
your friend is involved?
[KEIICHI] She's come to school
once since he came back,
and she was falling apart.
I'm scared to find out what
a whole month will do to her!
Do you not care
that a little girl
from your village is going
through that kind of trauma?
Fine.
Then what is it
you'd like us to do?
Anything, just hurry!
That's no problem.
We'll leave you
all to your business.
There's no need to
involve the Sonozaki name.
Your name's the only thing
that can help us now!
We won't get anywhere
with Child Welfare Services
unless the Hinamizawa village
council is on our side!
And we know they're all ready
to give us their support.
Grandma. Please let them.
Spineless bastards.
Who said it was their call?
If you'll nod
your head for us once,
this will be the last you hear
about the issue, ma'am.
Even if you can't say it out
loud, you can still nod.
And what if she won't?
[KEIICHI]
Then I'll bash her brains out
all over the floor right here,
and Mion will help us
when she takes over.
You do not know who you're
fuckin' around with, boy!
Kill the brat!
Stick a knife in him and drop
his ass down the old well!
Okay! If that's
how it's gonna be.
Hope you liked dinner, you old
hag, 'cause it was your last!
[ORYO] You got one
more chance to piss off
without an extra hole in you.
You don't wanna push me,
you little punk!
[KEIICHI] Satoko is my friend,
and I fight for my friends.
It's as simple as that!
Isn't that what you would do?
Gotta say, for an outsider,
you know your shit.
Outsider?
Get it right, you witch!
Hinamizawa Village is my home,
and I'll always fight
for my neighbors
when they're in trouble!
[IRIE]
Please, Madame Oryo,
it's true that
Maebara hasn't lived
in the village very long yet.
But he's shown a
great deal of promise,
and he'll do a
lot for our community.
I dunno where the
hell you been lookin',
but the only thing he's shown me
is he's a rude little
son‐of‐a‐bitch.
[KEIICHI] If that's the issue,
let me try a different approach.
Satoko needs our help,
and we need the Sonozaki family!
Please.
I beg of you!
Raise your head,
Keiichi, that's enough.
All right then,
Mother, what now?
Screw that crap.
Every damn Hojo is made
from the same mold,
they're all lying,
conniving bastards,
and then there's this little
dirtbag who'd just met me
when he threatened to
murder me in my own home!
Please, Grandma.
I always respected the way that
you fought for your friends,
and that's what I'm doing now!
'Cause back then.
I know you would have done
the same thing
for your neighbors!
[SHION]
Satoko is family to me.
I'm begging you, Grandmother.
Please help us!
I bowed my head before,
and I don't plan
on doing it again.
I'll ask one more time.
Please, help us. Help Satoko!
If I nod my head to you,
what comes next?
The village council
will escalate
our case with Child Welfare.
Honestly, Satoko doesn't
deserve to go through this
and everyone agrees
on that, Oryo.
For all of our sakes.
I think it's high time we agree
to let her back in the fold.
[ORYO]
The hell you say!
A Hojo's a Hojo,
and we don't need any more
of 'em runnin' around here.
That settles it, then!
If you plan to be her enemy,
you're my enemy too!
Which means one of us
has to die here!
[ORYO]
Augh!
You're givin' me a headache,
you little bastard!
You got no damn right.
I ain't gonna take this anymore!
Please try not to burst
a blood vessel, Oryo.
I do apologize,
but I'll ask you to
leave it at that for tonight.
Right now?
But we still
don't have an answer!
[AKANE]
Keiichi.
You've pushed plenty far,
and it's time for you to stop.
Come on. I think you've
done enough for now, Kei.
[KEIICHI]
Dammit.
We almost got to her!
[RENA] You said everything
that needed to be said, Keiichi.
It's up to Oryo to make
the right call now.
Not being able to do anything
but wait really sucks.
How'd it go, Uncle Kimiyoshi?
Is Grandma still mad?
She gave the okay.
You won her over.
The village council will be
throwing their
full weight behind you,
with the demon's blessing.
With that, you've just
won the official backing
of the Onigafuchi
Defensive Alliance.
This battle should
be yours to lose now.
Are you ready to follow through?
Yes, ma'am!
You don't hesitate for a second.
I like that in a man.
Oh, uh.
Thank you very much, ma'am!
No need for that, now.
Our dear old demoness was afraid
that the only proper way
to resolve her grudge
with the Hojos was to carry it
on with her to the grave.
Deep down, I'm sure
she's feeling relieved.
One less loose end
to leave behind.
[KEIICHI] I still owe her
my gratitude, though.
I must say, I find myself
quite impressed with you.
It takes a man
to do what you did.
My, Satoko. Nicely done.
Stop it! That's not
what this is about!
You're saying
I've misunderstood?
I'm relieved you two
still have a chance.
‐‐[MION] Mom!
‐‐[SHION] Hey!
[RIKA]
Keiichi?
After tonight,
we should be able to
save Satoko from her fate.
That's right.
We're gonna help her,
but I really wish you wouldn't
keep talking
about fate like that.
I won't anymore.
I understand.
There's nothing to gain from
talking so much about fate.
Because fate is
as flimsy as wet paper.
And you're the one
who taught me that.
Wait, when?
That's a secret.
Ni‐pah!
[RIKA] Next time:
Tataridamashi‐hen, Part 5.